As we have discussed in earlier sections, agent services can execute arbitrary operations in a decentralized way.
There is a great deal of applications where the properties of agent services make them better suited than existing solutions,
especially in those cases where complex operations are required to be executed in a decentralized and transparent way.

* **Oracle services**: Traditional centralized oracles feeding information into a public ledger require strong trust assumptions on the oracle operator. In the majority of the cases, these operators are well-reputed, non-malicious providers. But still, there is no inherent crypto-native guarantee on their behaviour. An oracle service implemented as an agent service clearly removes such strong trust assumptions.

* **Bridge components**: A cross-chain bridge is a service that enables transferring assets or information from a source blockchain to a destination blockchain. Both chains might operate under entirely different, incompatible consensus mechanisms. A bridge infrastructure usually consists of a number of components, some of them might be trusted. For example, the off-chain component that monitors funds deposited on a certain smart contract on the originator chain, and instructs to provide liquidity on the destination chain. Clearly, such off-chain component is a candidate to benefit from the decentralization and transparency guarantees offered by an agent service.

* **Treasury management services**: This kind of services receive users' assets and design a strategy to maximize returns, e.g., by investing in liquidity pools. This kind of functionality cannot be easily achieved through the usage of smart contracts alone, and using a centralized approach has the risk that the service might run with the users' deposited assets. Again, this functionality can be offered as an agent service where users can subscribe, in return for a fee to the service operators. The execution of the investment strategy can be as complex as the service owner wishes to design it, while reducing the need of depending on a centralized trusted entity.
